good Wednesday morning to M eastern PA
weather 30 meteorologist bobby markers
from this is your outlook for december
17 2014 and before we get into the video
today wanted to give a special shout-out
to the meteorology class up in
bloomfield high school i believe that is
up just north of newark here in Essex
County New Jersey and I were a nice
email from from one of our fans John who
is a member of that class and sent us a
very nice email that Joy's the videos
every single day and so we want to give
you a special shout-out from beginning
the video today going to the map today
now this is looking at overnight just
want to show you a couple different
things that what happened here we had a
low pressure moving up here through the
Great Lakes this ended up transferring
to another system off shore here which
is not really significant for our area
this is still moving away but we had a
cold front that's coming through this
morning associated with this is going to
be pushing off the coast once this
low-pressure consolidates off of off the
New England coast here so we're going a
little bit further here in time and show
you what the afternoon looks like you
can see it's up here in the Gulf of
Maine here at this point cold front
pushes through and we're going to get
noticeably windier today so we're going
to have clouds and fog early on before
that front moves through once this
clears through from west to east are
going to see the winds pick up skies are
going to clear out nicely but you're
going to have have wind gusts probably
winds sustained 10 to 15 gust at another
25 to 30 mile per hour range or not out
of the question this wind is going to be
here for our wind gust potential is
going to be here through thursday
nothing incredible here this is not
really windy conditions here but you can
see with the title isobars here you're
going to have the chance for the windier
conditions at least through thursday and
then we start start clearing out here
even more so on thursday and friday i
call it mostly sunny skies to partly
cloudy skies on both days and already
watching this system down to the south
this is the one everybody's been talking
about over the last couple of days here
and whether it obstacle it's going to
hit what whether or not it's going to be
a big storm or something it's going to
be a nuisance right now I will say the
models are pretty sold that this storm
is going to be a nuisance is coming out
of the Gulf of Mexico area
there's a couple different issues with
this system and why it can still go to a
bigger storm solution here we go to a
broader view here and just give you a
you know the broader broader picture
just the eastern half the United States
actually actually a little more than
eastern half here but this is worse it
up here and this is our storm system
here that's going to come in from
basically the Western Gulf of Mexico
region is a very southern jet is really
screaming at this point coming up like
this is your southern jet they know
where the stream is trying to dig in
here but it's still a split flow pattern
when we talk about a split flow we're
talking about two different Jess
northern and southern stream remaining
separate and when you have a split flow
pattern sometimes the models have
difficulty with that that is not a
that's not a surprise here showing a
different vantage point here here's our
southern jet when here's here's a system
down here that was just showing you
southern jet still up here like this you
know and you have your northern stream
coming here like this so you're still at
a split flow you're not two separate
jets are not interacting with one other
what you need to have a big storm here
is the northern jet is going to have to
dive down into the southern jet here and
interact with it to really wrap up the
storm bringing up the coast is a big
storm here like we're showing on the
models earlier in the week and we're
really not having that right now a large
part to the ridging out west not being
as prominent we talked about we just
talk about the jet streams here you're
talking about a 250ml of our Jedi listen
way up here way up in the atmosphere a
250ml bar jet of 175 knots running into
that Ridge in the western United States
so if that is correct as modeled
obviously there wouldn't be enough of a
ridge out west to give you that big
amplification it would be the what in
the East you need something like this or
the big deep trough in the East here
like this anyway we're going to get that
rich out there's if that jet slows down
a little bit so that's what the
excellent forecast challenges we're
having right now with how they handle
the system here on over the weekend here
if this did hit the storm does hit I'll
put this in motion too so you can see
the broad picture the storm did hit it
does look right now as biz model that it
would stay weak and the branches of the
jet streams would say the northern
southern branch will stay separate
rendering this system week unless the
amplification in the east as a result
and then this would just slide out of
here but you do have some precipitation
here coming into our area and this would
be in the form of snow when will this a
little bit closer here the models are
not disagreeing the ones that are having
this keeping this week or not
disagreeing that is going to bring some
snow here but just very light amount so
you can see some very these light rays
here these are very light amounts that
you know generally under you know under
a tent that bench maybe two tenths of an
inch at most here but as this system
here which is our main system off the
Carolina coast here instead of taking a
turn of the coast and bombing out and
getting very strong since those jet
streams are not phased together we just
slide out this way but it will have
enough on the northern fringe we think
it will give some snow but just minor
amounts I mean these we're talking about
less than two inches total here of snow
and then it lifts off to the Northeast
here and it's pretty much out of here
here's your storm system see you later
it's only a thousand twelve millibars
and moves off the coast the other day
when I was showing this big storm we're
talking about 998 996 990 sitting right
out here I mean you have something on
that you have some tremendous snowfall
back in here but that's really not
showing that right now it is way east
and way week again because of those jet
streams not coming together so these are
some of the things we're going to sort
out over the next couple days here and
until we get better data sampling and
the energy is in an area where
observations can be taken from that
energy it can be sampled and properly
integrated in the models which are not
having right now you know we might get
some better better information once that
happens and that's not expected to
happen until later today tonight and
early tomorrow morning so once we get
that data integrated in the models you
might see some changes with this but it
doesn't necessarily mean you're going to
go back to this big storm that was shown
here a couple days ago you could it
doesn't necessarily mean it's going to
happen that we still need to have need
to have that Ridge out west you know to
be more amplified or else you're not
going to have any storm were here
regardless of whatever energy pieces
you're trying to sample with a northern
southern jet stream but we'll keep an
eye on it as a southern stream system so
anytime you have a sudden stream system
coming out of the Gulf of Mexico they
have the potential to over perform so
we'll take keep an eye on it right now
we'll go with a college
lighter snow is but if something changes
will certainly let you know eastern PA
weather 30 BTR a little spot beam our
church and that is your outlook for
december 17 2014 have a great wednesday